[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
we have had the honor of having some of
the most amazing guests on impact theory
not only did they blow up the internet
but they also revealed some of the most
powerful advice on one of my favorite
topics of all time how to develop an
empowering mindset the advice from these
past guests is so impactful that i
wanted you to have it all in one place
so you could make the most of developing
your own empowering mindset this episode
will give you tangible advice on how to
start changing your mindset right now
for anyone who missed these guys the
first time around here is a brief
summary of the amazing people you're
about to encounter in today's episode
lily singh youtube superstar named by
forbes magazine the number one
influencer in the entertainment category
and also taking on her newest role as
host of the late show a little late with
lily singh on nbc
marie forleo an eight-figure
entrepreneur recognized by inc magazine
for building one of the fastest growing
companies in america in addition to
being a best-selling author trent
shelton a former nfl wide receiver one
of the biggest social influencers on the
planet and considered by many to be one
of the most impactful speakers of his
entire generation jay shetty a former
monk whose wisdom has truly gone viral
helping to land him on forbes 30 under
30 list in 2017.
wim hof a real life superhero who holds
26 official guinness world records for
feats that were long believed to be
fatal or just outright impossible john
assaraf a wildly successful serial
entrepreneur who has built
five multi-million dollar companies he's
a multiple time new york times
best-selling author and a much
sought-after coach and speaker so get
ready to completely change your mindset
starting with our first guest v1
and i assure you only
lily singh
okay so i begin to recognize the things
that that are making me tired fatigue
and these are signs that i'm not on the
right path but i know the next question
is going to be so how do i find the
right path what what is that process
yeah you know for me i went through this
phase where i just stopped saying no to
things so when i first started youtube i
thought okay i'm i'm opening the gates
up to this new platform and this new
type of creation i've never done before
but i've also started going to shows
more often i start to meet different
types of people i think a big part of
finding out what's right for you is stop
confining yourself to a path that you've
been convinced is the path
this what i'm doing right now is nowhere
on the path for a young indian girl
that's a part of my family like this is
nowhere on the path it was very much so
go to school and get married and have
kids and that's a success if you if
you're able to have those kids and give
my mom some grandkids you're successful
and i think it's about really stepping
outside of that and exploring whether
that's in school and taking classes that
you might not take at first glance
whether it's going and experiencing
different types of arts meeting
different types of people making new
friends i think there's so much out
there that you don't even know exists
and i'm a testament to that i make
videos on the internet ask my mom if she
thought that could have been a job when
she was growing up you know so i think
it's all about just really getting out
there and seeing what's available and so
then what are the signs that somebody
should look for to know that okay this
is something that resonates
i think
i okay i love sleep i just do episode i
love sleep but there's some mornings
when i wake up and i'm like i don't even
care how tired i am i'm so excited about
this day so i think being excited to
wake up also
you'll just see it in your energy i
think as well the little pep in your
step i have when i'm walking to set is
really telling also the people you
surround yourself with
i think when you start to get surrounded
by people
and my team is a great example of this
that really bring out the best in you
and you feel yourself growing and
learning and maybe a little more patient
or a little more creative or you think
about things a little differently any
type of evolution like that i think is
definitely signs you're doing the right
thing you know this this entire career
path has been
everything but comfortable no part of
it's comfortable so even on the days
when i come home and i think
that was horrible that audition was
horrible i can literally feel part of me
evolving as like okay what you did and
now you know for the next one what to do
you'll know what to expect for the next
one and those scary things are all signs
that you're doing the right thing
because you're growing that's really
interesting and the concept of getting
outside of your comfort zone i know
that's really big for you how do you
push yourself to do that and how do you
make sure that you're getting something
out of it because i'll give you like a
real fear that i have for people because
it's exactly what happened to me so i
forced myself out of my comfort zone
same thing i know that famous quote like
your your dream world's just on the
other side of your comfort and all that
so i put myself into business i was
learning it i was always behind i always
was embarrassing myself and looking
stupid and so as i was gaining skills i
was also gaining a massive amount of
anxiety
and so how do people
make the most of
those moments of discomfort
well you know it's i'm happy that you
touched on anxiety because it's a real
thing and a lot of
being an entrepreneur is stressful and
it is it does take a toll on your body
your mind and your health and so
something i believe to be equally as
productive as work is meditation and
taking some time to recover i have
something called rejuvenation sunday i
mean it's in my calendar it prompts up
sometimes on that sunday i'm like need
to even work but it's in my calendar and
it goes off every sunday um i think
taking those times to actually
consolidate those lessons and resetting
yourself is very very important because
at the end of the day we are
beings that get tired and we wear down
and i think that's important but making
the most out of stepping out of your
comfort zone i have this thing where i
like to visualize things i know because
it's easy to talk about all of these
things and then talk about tumblr quotes
and like oh cool success but when you're
actually down to it it's hard it's hard
walking into an audition for example and
then doing really badly and going home
and thinking well oh well i stepped out
of my comfort zone so i should be happy
that's not a practical thing that's
going to happen you're going to go home
you'll be sad you're going to eat the
ice cream i've done it i've done it all
the time but i think visualizing like
okay this is me this is my goal and i
literally do this with my hands every
time i have a failure this is me this is
the goal
there is nothing in between there i need
to create what is in between there
whether i do really well or really bad
that's going to be a step and i think
visualizing every failure as a little
stone towards where you need to go is
really helpful you talk really
powerfully about ownership and taking on
mistakes
in those moments where you've just
fallen on your face and you're feeling
uber shitty and you want to go eat the
bowl of ice cream or maybe you're
knee-deep in the haagen-dazs um how do
you
begin to
like get yourself out of that to tell
yourself something that's that's
ownership-based that's like this was me
i created this situation and so
yeah the reason i'm so big on ownership
is because i'm obsessed with efficiency
and i just feel like it's so much more
efficient to take ownership for things
than to
not because if you don't take ownership
for something who's gonna fix it then
it's just hanging there in the air of
this unsolved problem that no one's
addressing when you take ownership from
a mistake or a decision or something you
did not even a mistake maybe a bad
audition you did you are then able to at
least work on it and improve for the
next time if you don't take ownership
like oh is the casting director oh it
was because i was sick it was because of
whatever
you've literally said okay i need to
change nothing now it's not in my
control
taking ownership means you've taken
control to actually make a different
impact the next time you do that thing
so it's just the smart factual
scientific efficient thing to do
so speaking of being able to back out of
a show yes you've talked about
having shit-tastic days which is a great
word yes um we all have them
but you also talk about our ability to
control our state and that we can
actually
shift the way that we feel inside
without having to have any new external
stimulus just literally decide i'm going
to change the way that i feel
how do you do that because i think if
people can understand
not only the effectiveness of that but
actually the steps to take it could be a
game changer yeah i think it's really
simple for me i try and play this
practice of you know if i ever feel like
in any moment life is not going the way
that i think it should be going it's
because i'm resisting what is you know
if someone didn't turn in their work on
time and i'm just like
you know getting that way or something
didn't come out right or the delivery
doesn't come or the technology breaks
again we can list anything in that slot
right it's me arguing with reality i'm
making myself miserable in that moment
because i'm choosing to argue with what
is that's always a losing proposition
so the more awareness i can bring to
that and go like is this really how you
want to live your life in this moment
marie because every single moment as you
know sets you up for the next moment and
you string these moments together and
guess what you have your life until we
get to that incredible death bet we
never know when that's coming so every
single moment is an opportunity for us
to check ourselves before we wreck
ourselves and so i just try and play the
game if i'm miserable if i'm upset if
i'm angry if i'm cranky it is my
responsibility because it's based on
what i'm thinking or believing in that
moment it's not the outside world
causing me to feel this it's what i'm
doing up here that's making me have that
reaction and if i'm the problem i am
also the solution
so how do you in your own life begin to
unwind that so you i'm assuming you
literally walk yourself to that so you
realize okay i'm the problem i know this
yes um is it visualization is it framing
is it saying i'm going to take a new
perspective on this yeah
it it literally is like lighten up girl
you're fine like do you have a roof over
your head right now yes then things are
damn good is there some food in the
fridge you're probably luckier than
millions of people on the planet right
now is there running water in the
kitchen and in the bathroom yes again
you're better off than probably a
billion people or more so that little
reframe helps me and then in the moment
again it sounds so simple but i think
we're all searching for these really
complex things and we don't need them if
you can catch yourself arguing with
reality in the moment and realize that's
not a wise thing to do you can then back
yourself up and go okay
that didn't turn out right so what am i
going to do about it am i going to be
miserable in this moment and let this
ruin my night or am i going to send off
the email to say hey when's that work
going to come and let's readjust our
communication plan so this doesn't
happen again but the argument and the
irritation is not necessary to get a new
result
yeah energy is something that's
i find really interesting and i'm
picking up on something that you said in
that
oftentimes i find people can't talk
about it in a way that uh does anything
but give me the hives but you actually
can so
just because it gets so detached yeah
from my real experience yes but
you
one way that you make it really concrete
which i think is super interesting and
gave me this real sense of how to
externalize what i'm doing internally to
actually change the neurochemistry that
i'm experiencing yes in order to be able
to convey something new which is you've
said hey you're about to write somebody
in email
and then you give people advice on like
what to visualize and all that um do you
know what i'm talking about i don't so
this sounds really good i'm like wow did
i come up with this this is great it's
you so now i get to teach you yeah
please teach me my own stuff so this
sounds awesome it it you said that hey
you're about to email somebody and
depending on what it is you may be in an
aggressive statement oh yes yes yes um
so the fact that your energy gets
embedded into your communications we all
know that right like you've received the
email that's curt and you can just
almost feel the punch in the face that
comes through you've gotten the text
where you're like they are definitely
pissed at me um
i believe and i do this a lot with email
marketing especially in our business
every time i sit down to write a new
email i want the other person who
receives this email to the best of my
ability to feel the love and the energy
and the respect and the excitement that
i have not only for the idea that i'm
about to share but for the impact it
could have on their life i want them to
feel all of me you know if i'm sitting
there writing an email and i'm like just
feeling flaccid i mean what's that copy
going to be like it's not going to be
any good but if i'm there and i'm like
playful and i'm excited about it so that
excitement is conveyed and when
someone's looking through their inbox
and they see something from me nine
times out of ten
because i'm consistent they know if they
click open it's gonna be a good time
right there's gonna be love in that
email there's going to be an energy to
that email that's different and i mean
you've probably experienced this in your
own life in simple ways when someone
makes a request of you
they care to even put an emoji because
it's not just them try it's like that
was a genuine expression of their
excitement
i'm sure if your wife asks super
something and her energy is such that
there's love embedded in it you're a
hundred times more likely to want to say
yes right
yes so we all feel this stuff and i
think that if you can consciously begin
to practice it then you're going to
notice the impact and the results
your obsession with authenticity with
being really who you are at all times i
think is really cool to see you
um get the kind of community that you've
gotten around that being vulnerable and
opening yourself up
but what i find really interesting is
you're also the flip side of the coin so
as you were talking i was like he's
absolutely right but the reason that i'm
willing to listen to you about it
because you're also driven you're trying
to improve yourself you are trying to be
great you are trying to be strong and
tough you're just not afraid about it
yeah like how do you do both
i just i'm real with myself and i'm
honest like we're humans you're gonna i
mean everybody isn't on all the time you
know we all have our struggles our
silent battles as i like to call them
and instead of ignoring those solemn
battles i let them out but yes i am a
person that's will tell you make the
world respect your greatness i'm very
firm on that i'm a person that believes
in myself i'm a person that wants you
because i believe that's contagious like
even with social media i feel like
that's what really grew my platform is
people looked at my life not because of
my knowledge or whatever it's like trent
really believes this like he really does
he really lives it he really he doesn't
just talk it or type it he lives and
that's a big thing for me you know i can
tell people a secret right be
transparent like in a real way because
that creates connection now it's like i
can relate to that person you know
growing up in the church i'm gonna be
real with you tom like i would watch
pastors and preachers and i would be
like
i could never be them because it was
always perfection i was like i could
never beat him so i just chose a
different lifestyle but now when i see
people like say you know what i struggle
with this i struggle with addiction
doesn't mean you're not awesome because
you have addictions everybody has
addictions everybody has about battles
some people just hot there is better so
i relate more to that because now it
becomes attainable now you become
relatable to me and i can be like wow
like i can still go through this there's
nothing wrong with me i'm a human i'm
going to have my insecurities my flaws
and i can actually grow from it so i
think we need more examples of the world
of that and that's what i just try to
give people as much as i can you have a
great way of like packaging things up
and these really memorable
um phrases one that you said earlier
that i want to get back to you is you
said a lot of people never unwrap their
gift yeah and that really hit me what is
that
look like like how does one unwrap their
gift yeah it's it's a process this is
the process of i think face and fear i
mean
and we can talk about fear for like
because
facing fear is is super important we can
talk about like my process with that i
think in order to unwrap your gift so
i'm not gonna go into my skydive story
that'll take forever but i realize like
what fear is right and for me
fear is creating a known result right
from a situation we haven't experienced
yet and so when i used to go back to
football when i would be scared to go
out there and perform i'd be like you
know what i'm gonna drop the ball
i'm gonna miss the pass and the whole
crowd of 80 000 people is going to be
like ah
so i'm like i'm scared now stage when
i'm on stage before i was speaking what
do you think i was thinking i'm gonna
freeze up again nobody's gonna care
all of these things i realized that i
was creating a result before i ever
experienced it and so i said hmm
if that's the case
i need to create something better on the
other side of that door something more
empowering that's going to force me to
actually go through the door so now when
i speak i say you know what i'm going to
impact at least one life so go out there
and do it you know when it comes to my
skydiving of course that thing was
the parachute's not going to open you're
going to die of course you're not going
to jump out of playing but i immediately
changed that so this is going to be the
most incredible thing and also leverage
where now i can use this in every area
of my life because i conquered my
biggest fear so
people out there that are going through
fear for moments it's kind of like this
you will never step into the ring
if you're already telling yourself that
you're gonna lose before the fight
you'll never do that like why would you
right so tell yourself you're gonna win
even if you get knocked down guess what
you're never knocked out in life until
you actually tap out into your last day
so
figure out that leverage point with your
fear what's going to help you walk
through the door
and then you have to just give it to the
world i never knew speaking was my gift
until i actually went out there and
failed i actually went out there and
embarrassed myself and i realized like
wow
this is what i was created to do and i
knew that because
i like to put it like this
and i hope they get it that's watching
this but i've never had so much like
peace
in the midst of like fear never had so
much confidence in the midst of like my
weakness in that moment
and so
when it comes to gifts think about it
like this like when someone gives you a
physical gift like christmas and your
birthday what do you do
you unwrap it you show it to the world
you put on instagram
you got that same gift inside you that
the world needs and you're doing the
world of disservice
by leaving your gift wrapped up somebody
needs your story my mom told me this and
i'll never forget he said trent
you're assigned to reach people i don't
know how many but you're assigned to
reach people that nobody else can reach
but you
she said everybody has that
and the more you leave your gift wrapped
those people that need your message that
need your encouragement whatever it is
that needs your talent they're never
gonna get it and you're not gonna leave
this world a better place
codify this for me or for anybody that
wants they don't know what their ideal
life looks like they just know that
they're not living it yet so
uh step number one is take it seriously
to find out if the hypothesis is true or
not you have to take the um the the
experiment you have to do it sincerely
um what comes after that i think even
one step before that is is opening
yourself up to new role models and new
experiences
see we live in echo chambers
we're just surrounded by the same
thinking how often do you bump into a
monk you know it just doesn't happen you
don't have no one has a dinner party and
goes oh yeah we just invited the monk
you know from town like the local monk
like no one ever does that and so
we meet people who are just like us most
of the time
and we talk about this in business all
the time if you want to be a billionaire
spend time with billionaires if you want
to be a millionaire spend time with
millionaires if you want to be a tech
startup spend time with you know that's
that's the common rhetoric that we hear
all the time
but what if you want to find purpose and
master the mind there's no one better
than a monk who's mastered the mind
so so for me the first step is just
opening yourself up to new experiences
and new role models
because most of us can't see ourselves
in people so then we try and fit
ourselves into the boxes that we do see
and and i mean there's this beautiful
quote that i've been saying it
everywhere and i wish i wrote it but i
didn't so it's by a philosopher and
writer named cooley
and he said that today i'm not what i
think i am i'm not what you think i am
i am what i think you think i am
right and just let that blow your mind
for a moment it's uh it's so powerful
i'm not what i think i am i'm not what
you think i am
i am what i think you think i am
so we live in this perception of a
perception of ourselves
hence my identity is made by what my
parents think i should be my identity is
made up by what my college or university
thinks i should achieve
while you're living in that bubble in
that echo chamber
getting to what you really want to do is
impossible because maybe that just
doesn't fit and i think so many people
feel that way today that they don't fit
into the current education system they
don't fit with the three or four or five
careers that you're taught exist
so
that process of self-excavation and
actualization first requires being
exposed you can't be what you can't see
if i never saw a monk i would never have
wanted to be a monk if i never meet a
billionaire i wouldn't want to be one
because i wouldn't know what that feels
like i don't know what it looks like i
don't know what it takes
and i think that's the biggest challenge
of our society that we're not exposed so
that's the first step being exposed to
unique experiences and role models
second step is finding that experience
or role model that you're passionate
about and exactly like you said taking
it seriously shadow them network with
them spend time with them observe them
even from afar it takes that observation
being addicted to observing that
person's lifestyle
and then the third step is going yes or
no
does that work for me
not everyone who's going to go off and
become a monk is going to feel like the
way i did and that's cool
but not everyone is going to go and
follow and shadow a billionaire anger
that's exactly the lifestyle i want they
may want the result but do they want the
hard work that goes with it and so for
me that's the third step it's observing
focusing shadowing getting as close to
the process of that individual and then
going yes or no do i want that process
not do i want the result everyone wants
to be that monk who's fully enlightened
you know can walk through has an
incredible aura that people just
gravitate towards but when you realize
he has to wake up at two am every day
and sleeps about four to six hours
you're like ah you know i don't want to
do it
that doesn't sound like me all right so
a couple things one you said he's as
powerful as he is yeah find power for me
power being
so from amongst perspective perspective
the greatest power
is to be self-controlled
to be able to train the mind and energy
to focus it exactly where you want it
and when you want it to be
you are completely detached and
undeterred from external ups and downs
you're able to navigate anything that
seems
tough challenging
fun excitement with the same amount of
being equipoised and balanced in
equanimity
without being too excited in pleasure or
being too depressed in pain
but knowing how to navigate every
situation to me that's great strength
and great power
i heard in one of your talks you were
saying that if you look at um a literal
lifeline a heartbeat for instance you
know it's up and it's down and people
have this sense that something like
enlightenment would be
that um the equanimity forever and just
an even keel and you said but what what
does that resemble it resembles a flat
line when you die correct so
what is it like what i love about you is
you sort of went into the wilderness of
being a monk but you've brought it back
to the real world
because when you talk about a monk you
talk about them being detached and that
to me seems like the only real way to
have that sort of super even keel
existence which is not appealing to me
personally so if you're bringing back
that notion of power of having control
over yourself not letting your emotions
take you everywhere but knowing that
life is is the series of ups and downs
what does that power look like when it's
brought back absolutely and actually
that's the whole aim of monk training
it's it's more like a training system
than it is a lifelong commitment it is
bringing that mindset into the real
world where you get to test it now i got
to do that for real
when i left being a monk around five
years ago
and
when i left it was like oh my god i'm in
the real world now again real world i
have to think about how to apply all
this i'm gonna test for real
all this stuff that i've learned and i
was scared like i was nervous i was
anxious and all those things that i've
been trained not to be
rushed back
because
for the first time in my life i had to
really put it into practice
and i love that feeling i'm so glad that
i had to do that so for me actually the
mindset is completely
trainable to bring into the real world
that's that's what i'm trying to do
and and what it allows you to do is it
allows you to grain clarity and
perspective when you need it because you
know when you can just take a bird's-eye
view from something
you know when you need to get close into
something you know when you need to pull
back from something there's a beautiful
verse in the bhagavad-gita that says
that
detachment is not that you owe nothing
detachment is that nothing owns you
so you've got happiness
strength and health and health
so what is happiness happiness is all
the euphoric hormones related to the
endocannabinoid system we have
absolute access therein at will
we only need to invest and exercise into
that like a child has to learn to walk
so what do you want you want to be
dependent on pills and this and that and
drugs etc or do you want to get high on
your own supply
it's there why do you play guitar
uh music is the voice of the heart of
course of your feeling
and it's resonance and resonance getting
into the brain waves and we have tested
this with the nasa equipment
doing the breathing
makes you able to go into these deep
alpha
delta gamma waves
inc fully controlled but music shift
your
brain wave just at will yes anybody can
do that how far could you could you go
to like if i said
we're all gonna make noise but i want
you to get into a gamma wave state which
is like deep meditation could
you do that in like five minutes or less
a couple of minutes i'm getting there
wow i'm resonating with that voice with
that resonance and that affects certain
parts of the brain deeper parts of the
brain who are connected with the voice
and the
and and of resonance and which is a
deeper part of the brain begins to
actively be activated thus the blood
flow begins to descend into the depth of
the brain and then it becomes
enlightened and activated and gets the
nutrients and the biochemistry that's
meditation all about now
mindfulness is very much researched
and it shows that through mindfulness
you are able to activate deeper parts of
the brain they become more alive because
simply the blood flow goes to these
deeper parts but what we have seen now
in the brain scans
not even seasoned practitioners in
mindfulness are able to activate
those parts you have been activating and
i say it's innately capacitated to
anybody but it needs the conscious
technique and the passing on of that
not money etc but
it is there but it needs to be awakened
it needs to be shown if you always walk
to this way to the house because that's
your knowledge you don't know the
shortcut which was always there god is
there any way for you to put it into
words so obviously there's no substitute
for the training but
what what is it like they're such
practice meditators but they can't do
what you can do so what is that thing
that you're able to pass on in four days
the confidence
opening up your heart
and suddenly you become aware
that it is simply there
within four days we get into a tribal
sense together there is no me and you
we are together in nature battling call
there there is no thought you help each
other you get this natural sense of
helping each other which enables me
like oxytocin
i help you it's really strong that
oxytocin within those groups i do in
nature within one and a half day
they are out of their conditioned state
of the mind holding in tension and they
are completely open relaxed and then
they are able to let go and let the body
do what the body is able to do in
extreme situations because they are no
longer confined in their narrowed
consciousness everything reacts directly
and finds the answer and with that comes
everybody
and and it all suddenly makes sense that
love is the greatest power of the
universe and that we lost the tribal
sense of helping each other and that
makes them able in just four days to go
in temperatures like
way down and freezing temp
freezing conditions
and then having great fun and dense
harlem shake and your socks off on the
mountain top after hours in the those
conditions
those
that
makes the depth suddenly aware to one's
consciousness
and that is like
i never felt this i never yeah but
that's you
and that you
we are here
to promote to show that everybody has it
and so
all the problems in the world
we have a system inside in willful
possible command if we only exercise and
awaken to it
to handle anything that comes to us
because that's the way we were built not
hopeless full of hope and not 20 of the
brain capacity within our command but
hundred
and there it is and with 100 we find
freedom because we can go anywhere
without fear because we are in control
you always say release weight you never
say lose weight yeah what do you do when
you lose something
look for it yeah i don't want to look
for weight that i've lost
i want to release it i like to use
language patterns
as well that are going to empower me
versus disempower me
self-talk is so critical
and so i'm consistently paying attention
to how am i speaking to myself
am i speaking to myself in a kind
motivating
empathetic compassionate way
or am i consistently self-deprecating
and putting myself down i used to think
a lot like when i was younger i'm not
good enough i'm not smart enough i'm not
worthy
those thoughts uh and you know lots of
fear fear of being embarrassed fear of
failure fear of being ashamed and i
still have the thoughts every once a
while especially when i'm setting new
goals those come up holy mackerel they
come up so freaking fast are you smart
enough to achieve that are you good
enough to achieve that even when i got
into really diving deep into the brain
science and even my new book i had i was
petrified to release my book it took me
two years to write it because now i'm
entering another whole domain of
neuroscience and neuropsychology with
world-renowned experts that i've worked
with for years
but now here i am putting myself out
there with hey this is
neuroscientifically correct so i had to
make sure that it was
but there's a lot of fear
but i understand what the emotion of
fear is it's a subconscious trigger that
causes this feeling that i don't like
and it's a ghost signal for me not a
stop signal for me
that's interesting what do you mean by
that
well fear is an emotion emotions are all
triggered at the subconscious level
they release neurochemicals that causes
a feeling we are consciously aware of
feelings
that are triggered at the subconscious
level the feeling is the end point
of the human experience in the physical
body
and so when you have something in your
brain that that a neural network says
well
what if this book comes out and you fail
what if it's not good enough what is
scientifically not correct what if what
if what if my brain is going to process
that the same way as your brain and
everybody else because that's
everybody's brain is the same the
mechanism of how the brain works it's
einstein's brain hitler's brain genghis
khan's brain
tom biliu's brain john acetate all the
same functionality
so if you understand the mechanics of
what's supposed to happen
then you say okay great when i feel this
then what am i going to do
so i like to use an analogy of a car
you're driving a car
and you're talking to a friend of yours
and a light pops up on the dash you
don't take a hammer and hit a light
it's a signal something's happening in
the in the in the engine in the trunk in
the in the tires something's happening
emotions and feelings aren't uh positive
or negative
they're
empowering or disempowering to varying
degrees if you don't understand them
and so if you think about fear right
how does a firefighter
go into a burning building
when there's this enormous adrenaline
and an epinephrine you know that could
stop most people dead in their tracks
they learn
here's the feeling it's normal
do you have the knowledge and the skills
and the preparation to deal with this in
a safe way
go
if you don't now you retreat so we have
this phenomenal brain right it's it's
it's genius abilities we can't figure
out how to
replicate it anywhere with billions of
dollars but we are getting some of the
user's manual now
so when you feel fear what should you do
i teach the first two inner sizes that i
teach every one of our students number
one is called take six com the circuits
so if you have this unpleasant anxious
fearful emotion energy in motion
right
and it's unpleasant
and the breaks have gone on
if you just take six deep breaths in
through your nose
out through your mouth like you're
breathing through a straw you will
deactivate the stress response center
which means blood is going to go back to
the left prefrontal cortex the einstein
part of the brain can actually think
through this problem because what
happens when the stress response center
is activated blood goes away from that
into the fear response so you have
epinephrine cortisol adrenaline to be
able to get you out of this situation
it's part of our instinctual brain part
of the reptilian brain the first part of
the brain that was developed was that
then the mammalian brain the limbic
system then the neocortex the thinking
brain
so when our brain has this signal of oh
my god you might get hurt you might lose
this you might get in trouble you might
be embarrassed ashamed ridiculed judged
etc
that part of the brain is going to get
activated so if you take six deep
breaths first calm down calm the
circuits first
then do inner size number two is called
aya aia
the first day is for awareness
what am i thinking right now what am i
feeling right now what am i sensing
right now
what is my behavior right now
to you thoughts feelings sensations
awareness of behavior what's my
intention right now that's the i
well my intention is to move forward i
want to do this
great what's one
very small action step that you can take
now the reason you want to take one
small action step
is one small action step
your brain can handle
if it's one small step towards it the
threat response goes away
but if you focus on the end game right
away
you're going to get that rush and that
instant trigger of the fear response
stress response so the first thing you
want to do is learn how to manage your
mindset
and what you focus on learn how to
manage your emotions because they drive
your behavior more than anything else
because we move away from pain and we
move towards pleasure but we move away
from pain a thousand times faster and
pain wires in the brain faster for
survival mechanisms
so purely from a neuroscience
perspective just understanding self
once you understand okay this feeling is
normal okay what should i do
take six comm the circuits
ayah
and now you can start being progressive
and make progress towards what you want
that me focus on progress to just keep
getting better little incremental gains
every day every week every month every
quarter
and even when you move backwards a
couple of steps what's the progress that
you made in what you learned